I want to lose weight.
I want to gain weight.
I want to build muscle.
I want to be healthy.
Whatever you want, you need to understand what calories are and how to use them to get what you want.

Introduction
When I was 15 years old, my friends weighed me. I was 17 stone. They laughed and mocked me. I was in denial. I didn't believe it. Before that, I never cared too much I was fat, even when my GP snickered and said I was overweight. But that changed something in me. I developed body dysphoria disorder. I lost 6 stone in 3 months by eating maybe 1000 calories a day. I would skip breakfast. I would eat a single slice of pizza at school. I would eat a half can of sup for tea. I cut out donuts, chocolate
months I dropped 6 stone.
I walked to and from school, an hour each way
I went for a walk an hour or two each day with a friend, the pounds
My teachers noticed my clothes because super baggy

I started working out. Lifting weights. Over two years I went from 11 stone to 13 stone. I started experimenting with diets to lower my body weight. I still felt self conscious. I never spoke to girls. I never went out. I watched what I ate and drank religiously.
I tried all meat diets, keto, fasting, working out every day, 2 day split, 3 day split, full body workout, rock climbing,

This book will not tell you a keto diet will work for you because our biology is different. What works for me might not work for you. But I will give you the information and guidance you need to find what does work for you.

The effects of working irregular hours
Stress
Sleep

The effects of diet and exercise, depression

First,
Nutrition
Calories
Carbohydrates
   Sugar
Fats
   Saturated
   Unsaturated
Protein
Fibre is very important
Vitamins

White bread versus brown bread
Butter

Energy
RMR

BMR

TDEE

Calories in, Calories out

There are 3500 calories in 1 pound and 14 pounds in 1 stone. If you wish to lose 1 stone, you need to

Round-Up Calorie Counting
This method simply rounds up calories when using the CICO method, but it assumes you are eating more calories than you are,

Fasting and Intermittent Fasting or IF for Short
This is an interesting method.

Ketosis
Less carbs, more fats.
There is a common misconception that fat makes you fat to some degree. Fat makes you fat if you eat too much fat, but sugar is the true culprit. Sugar causes your kidney to produce more glucose which is stored as fat if too much is produced.

Vegetarian
Vegan
Glutten is important

Exercise is awesome. I love weightlifting but hate jogging.

I am going to dicuss the effects of your weight

How you exercise depends on your weight. If you're thin. If you're fat.

Walking
I like walking.

Speed Walking

Jogging
I refuse to run because it's high impact and my knees are injury prone. Instead, I prefer low impact cardiovascular exercise like walking or biking.

Running

Swimming is tiresome.
You should know the effects of cold water include a delayed appetite so when you leave the pool, you may start feeling very hungry.

This book was written after Scenes was released, but during the development of the Die Mauer DLC.
